[Music]
imagine being in one of these homes and
all of a sudden a fleet of Apache
helicopters show up right outside your
balcony with the sole intention of
destroying the entire neighborhood where
I'm standing right now was once the most
dangerous area and one of the most
violent cities so much so that they call
that the murder capital of the world but
today things have changed we're about to
tell you that story
[Music]
as most of you know Medina was the base
of operations for Pablo Escobar strut
cartel during the 1980s
now within medine one area stood out as
not only being the most densely
populated area in the city but also one
of the most dangerous neighborhoods in
the world community n-- along with
cartel violence left-wing guerrilla
groups were active in the area and the
conflict eventually came to a boiling
point known as Operation Orion on
October 16 2002 government Apache
helicopters flew over the neighborhood
and began to fire and anything that
moved the government stated that only a
dozen people were killed but the actual
number is said to be in the hundreds the
attack became known for the widespread
human rights violations and 15 years
later many of the people there still
don't have answers from then on the
state left a community in total neglect
and never recognized the abuses that the
inhabitants experienced but slowly with
the help from local organizations and
the municipality they've been able to
renovate the neighborhood into a
bustling place of art life and peace
c'mere 13 is now seen as an example for
change so we thought would walk right
into the community and see the state
it's in today so wherever we go and
there it is doing the directions we
always get lost problem is right now
we're going to like the slums in MIDI in
there and keep switching where we're
going so he's going back and forth they
can be sent up to every time
it's always gone genuinely afraid that
we're gonna end up in a very bad place
and what do you have to say you
defendant you knows where he's going
okay huh I lost you don't think I look
very confident
[Music]
they're to know Dayton's direction hey
oh thank you love you said faucet forget
everybody
kids she want to get out of your comfort
and follow Darren into a slow
[Applause]
[Music]
those plastic bottles that a freeze
growing is the idea that once enough
someone dies instead of taking revenge
you plant a tree these are all people
who have been killed through the
fighting three different groups who are
fighting for control over the place and
basically it's just mercenaries and like
teenagers killing each other the idea is
not to dwell on the past and enact
revenge but to plant a tree in order to
hope for the future
is this what the Animus Santiago
catalyst man with some us - yes well
here are really nice dogs are not
[Music]
all right
and say if you talk to mr. pessimistic
about acid like it all depends on if the
education system keeps improving I'm
saying just saying how you know the
helicopter raid yeah I was like how was
that for you like whatever and she was
like yeah they shut down her kid son
woman you were talking to yeah
she say else after like 2000 to 90% of
the population uses women and children
like all the men were just shot down
like it really does feel safe it's just
Colombian people are like haven't been
nothing but friendly yeah the dogs in
his neighborhood minute that this is you
figure it out and like be invested in
these escalators that might seem stupid
but it brought a lot of people here so
it cost five million dollars to build
these which seems insane to us when I
first heard it but now that we're here
it makes sense it looks like it brought
a lot of tours it looks like that
benefited them it doesn't look like it's
something that they're ashamed of or
well that they dislike
[Applause]
Cheers
well Darren films a progression the
other boys watching in the street start
a gang fantastic look at these boys
young and wild and athletic it's ok
singing that must finally skills should
have taught us in the street
[Music]
but nah come with us come with the MS
dos anos tienes tu hermano left
community feeling positive about its
future just twenty years ago this was
the crime and violence city of the world
and now it's filled with community and
forgiveness we saw firsthand that no
matter how hopeless some part of the
world may seem for recovery love and
persistence can always turn it into a
place of unity and peace
[Music]